# 7S Framework #

> Assignment - 7S:
> Organisations are not just about methodology. There are quite a number of abstractions for organisations. We will look at the 7S model. Now we go and look outside to two successful companies through the eyes of the 7S model. You can select these companies. One should be a software company, one should come from another industry. What can you learn from this for your failed case? What can you learn from this about the methods RUP and Scrum.
> 
> Look for organisations that really make clear how they work from the inside. Think about Etsy, Quora, Google, Facebook, Apple, Microsoft, Mozilla, Amazon, Spotify.

## 1. Introduction ##

7S is a management model developed by  R.H. Waterman Jr. and T.Peters. The 7 Ss are structure, strategy, systems, skills, style, staff and shared values. The model is most often used as an organizational analysis tool to assess and monitor changes in the internal situation of an organization

#### Principles
(think about measures that will improve performance).
The core idea lays on the question "How I distribute my sources in order to get the best results and create some value?".
The seven elements need to be aligned and helping each other in order to hold performance at the host organization, and organizations must be align with external enviroment. 
The model can help to identify non aligned issues at critical moments like during changes at the organization. Also to clarify some of the key issues that must be addressed for such organizations to be effective and adaptive.

#### Process Area Descriptions

##### Strategy :
What makes the organization special?. Ones such question is answer of course based on the organization vison statement. The next step is to identify the kind of problems the organization addresses on its functional areas, aiming to enhance its competitive advantage. 

##### Structure :
How the organization is arranged or configured? For example some organizations are divided for their geographical distribution, others for its functionalities, others focussed on their main production, aiming to clarify its integration and coordination mechanisms.

##### Systems :
It refers to the formal procedures for measurement, rules and processes for getting things done and managing the activity of the organization. They include personnel evaluation , rewards, performance assessments, chain-ofcommand relationships, policies for planning, monitoring, and executing projects.

##### Staffing :
It refers to organization's human resources and how they are recruited, selected, and trained to perform their jobs, aiming to choose what is best for its demographic, educational and attitudinal characteristics.

##### Skills :
What is the organization good at, and what special skills and competencies are found its people, and at the organization itself?. Aiming to identify organization's core competencies and distinctive capabilities.

##### Style :
How do the leaders interact with subordinates and others in the organization, and how do members interact with each other?. Aiming to identify typical behavior patterns of key groups.

##### Shared values :
Are the underlying principles or ideas that provide meaning and purpose in an organization.

##### Alignment with the External Environment: 
How do the shared values of the organization align with values found in the external environment, and what are the implications?


#### Limitations
When something is misaligned , what are the step to follow?

# 2. Through the eyes of the 7S model #

## 2.1 Software industry ##

### Spotify

Spotify is a commercial music streaming, podcast and video service, founded in april 2006 by Daniel Ek and Martin Lorentzon. Spotify was launched in September 2008 and by June 2015 Spotify had more than 75 million active users, including about 20 million paid users. 

##### Strategy

> • Capabilities. Gathering, sharing and evaluating information about low-cost
> infrastructures and related activities.
> 
> • Social Networks. Building open and active coalitions among experts—from any
> organization or part of the world—who have background and knowledge in key areas,
> and among the business, government, and civil society stakeholders who will have to live
> with and sustain the solutions on the ground.
> 
> • Policy, doctrine and operational procedures. Converting high-level guidance into
> effective field procedures.
> 
> • Legal and regulatory issues. Complying with all laws and regulations, while identifying
> and working to change those that impede cooperation and unity of effort.
> 
> • Resources. Identifying needs for both the short and long terms.
> • Training, exercises, and education. Maintaining readiness, capturing lessons learned, and
> preparing future leaders.

- Two music streaming tiers: Spotify Free ( a lot advertisements) and Spotify Premium ( paid, remove advertisements, improve audio quality, download available), this is called 'freemium pricing strategy'.
- Spotify pays artists based on their 'market share' (the number of streams for their songs as a proportion of total songs streamed on the service). They distribute approximately 70% to rights-holders.
- Other competitors in the market like Grooveshark have been shut down as part of legal settlements, because strategies that did not compensate the music production, Spotify even having some artist criticism, has manage to hold some balance between their activities and the music production industry.
- Spotify build open and active coalitions among business partners, creating structured channels aiming to ease the use of playlist on many business branches like media, festivals, not-for-profit organisations, audio hardware companies. They also facilitate partnerships at strategic openings for example fitness partners and gift card retailers. 

##### Structure

> Structure is about how the organization is arranged or configured. Many organizations take a
> functional structure, in which different branches of the organization specialize in particular
> functions, such as manufacturing, sales, and service. Another common form is a divisional
> structure, in which divisions are arrayed according to geographical regions, products, or some
> other factor, and each division contains a full complement of functional elements (e.g., sales,
> service, R&D).

Spotify headquarters resides in London and its handles, research and development departments are in Stockholm.
Like many other matrix management organizations, Spotify subdivides the work among people with similar skills, and they are pooled for work assignments, resulting in more than one manager with their own responsibilities and competencies. All this managers are from that point, reporting hierarchical button up to the CTO and finally to the CEO.
Further literature does not specify aspect like functional elements (e.g., sales, service, R&D), and how they interact with eachother.

##### Systems

> Systems refers to the rules and regulations, standards, and processes for getting things done and managing the activity of the organization, both formal and informal.

How things get done? 
according to Spotify [12]: 
- Spotify has a culture based on agile principles, that went down to Scum at early years, but some of the scrum practices were getting on the way so they decided to make them optional. Perhaps because they valorate more the agile principals than the scrum practices.
- All engineerings happens in squads (preferably less than 8 members) , they try to keep those squads loosely coupled, tightly aligned. I could not find the reason of them using squads, but perhaps they do it attempting to minimizing dependencies.
- They like cross-pollination instead of 'standardization', in order to spread knowledge, trends and tools between squads. It does not break the principal of 'isolated missions' because cross-pollination is used to spread the uses of tools like github for example. When there is not an standard for the use of tools, they could perhaps loose some consistency, anyway literature indicates that Spotify culture stands for flexibility and they found a happy balance.
- Their code is shared on an internal open source model. Again this can be an attempt to avoid dependencies.
- Squads make small and frequent releases as a routine, which is enable due decoupling their services.
- Their uses release trains and feature toggles aiming get things into production early and often.
- They claim that their culture is based also on the people, therefore the focus on motivation, community and trust rather than structure and control.
- Product development is based on Lean. They release their new features to a small group of customers limiting the 'blast radius' of a possible fail and it allows them to conduce a lot of small experiments. They report that it produces a lot of waste but this can be seen from a Lean perspective. 
- They have something called 'core metrics data'. The data is feed dynamically due constant experimentation.

##### Staffing

> Staffing refers to people in the organization and how they are recruited, selected, and trained to
> perform their jobs. Leadership is included in this category, whether leaders are selected from the
> outside or developed from within. Staffing addresses the question of how the organization
> assures it has the right people to do the work.

Spotify claims to have a very clear definition of what and how employees careers should develop in order to achieve the most important organization goals.[6]"Everyone in *Spotify tech* should have a way to grow their careers and expand the impact of their -work no matter what role they play".
The Spotify technology career framework, consist on letting the employee transfer itself on as many roles and domain expertise as possible in order to gain experience and later evaluate their impact into the organization.
*On recognition and promotions* Spotify observes constantly the impact someone has at a wider scope, and they have a formal ways to promote their employees.
*On setting the step for a new employee* Spotify gives 6 months to all new employees to get involved with their role and the organization.
*On compensation* A formal promotion should lead to higher pay in a straightforward and transparent way.

##### Skills

> Skills are the special, distinctive competencies of the organization, both in the people and the
> organization itself. What is the organization good at, and what special skills and competencies
> are found its people?

What is the organization good at?
According to [17]:
- Spotify has better social features than its rivals, with the ability to add friends and see their playlists and listening, as well as a built-in messaging system to ping music back and forth. Creating and sharing your own playlists is easy too.
- Another strength is the system for following musicians’ profiles and getting notifications when they have new music out. A recently introduced Concerts feed shows you upcoming, nearby gigs by artists you’ve listened to, which is useful.
- It has good support for devices beyond the desktop and mobile: it’s available on Sony’s PlayStation 4, Sonos hi-fis and through Google’s Chromecast and Amazon’s Fire TV, while its mobile app plays nicely with Apple TV too.
- Spotify’s free tier has audio advertising, but is missing offline listening and – on mobile – the ability to pick tracks on-demand, although you can play an artist’s catalogue on shuffle mode. Pay £9.99 a month, and you get full access (including offline), no ads, and a higher-quality streams option.
- Where Spotify falls down is its family plan, which is more expensive than rivals. You can add up to four extra accounts for £4.99 each, but that means you’ll pay £29.95 a month for a family of five compared to Apple Music and Google Play’s £14.99 for six.
- Besides all this facts actually there are a couple of easy things to say where Spotify is very good at, like Spotify seems to be good at keeping their organization dynamic, focusing on their community rather to an hierarchical structure.

##### Style

> Style deals mainly with the leadership approach of the top managers in the organization. How do
> the leaders interface with subordinates and others in the organization, and how do members
> interact with each other? Style also incorporates the climate or culture of the organization, which
> can be expressed in terms of job titles, space allocation, workplace architecture, artifacts, and
> policies.

How do the leaders interact with subordinates and others in the organization?
According with Spotify [12]:
- They have an Agile engineering culture, which means they like servent leaders rather than process masters.
- Autonomy that every member team has over their work have evolve to a high rate percentage of team members satisfaction and they keep investing on it. 
- Autonomy seems also to keep high motivation levels [12 and 13], teams are fast, and their minimize de dependency from and to, other teams.
 
##### Shared Values

> Shared values are the core beliefs in the organization about what is important and why the
> organization exists. They are incorporated in formal statements, such as a vision statement, and
> in informal expressions and practices around the organization. Shared values are the underlying
> principles or ideas that provide meaning and purpose in an organization.

- The vision of Spotify is give people access to all the music they want all the time, in a completely legal manner. 
- It is their mission to ensure a fair digital deal for artists.
- Spotify's vision is providing music moments everywhere, launching in more markets globally so that any music fan can access that music wherever they are.
- Spotify's mision is also keeping the organization as a very nice place to work in.



## 2.2 Non-Software industry ##

### KLM
Note: Most of the information about the leadership comes from talks with my (Ger) father, who is a copilot for KLM. Therefore there are no official sources to cite and the leadership style is largely from a pilot's point of view. So different departments will likely have other styles of internal management.
##### Strategy
KLM's main strategy is to position itself as a luxury brand. In their advertisement they position flying as something
unique and beautiful, instead of focusing on the price of the tickets. Instead of nickle-and-diming their customers for drinks and food like many other airlines, they prefer to just include it in the ticket price. This gives a more luxurious and relaxed feeling during flights. Together with this they also aim for a very user friendly
atmosphere by focusing a great deal of attention to twitter and facebook customer service.

In order to establish a better market position, KLM is a member of an airline alliance: Skyteam. Through these alliances airlines expand their global network of destinations. Through this network the airlines can offer a better service to their customers, they can integrate the flights of their allied airlines (this is called codesharing). This helps customers in making it easier to book multi-legged trips, thereby creating a one-stop-shop for virtually any destination in the world. Furthermore, it is customary for alliances to share frequent flyer miles. Which makes customers more likely to choose for an ally of their regular airline when needing to select a different airline, as such creating a stronger binding to their customer.
It has to be noted that this is not a very uncommon strategy. According to the Skytrax (http://www.airlinequality.com/) rating (which is most likely not a very scientific measurement, but it is still a recognized industry benchmark) there is only one five-star airline not participating in an alliance: Hainan Airlines. Likewise, a majority (21 of 38) of the airlines that are rated with four stars are participating in an ailliance.
##### Structure
As to be expected of a company with 32.000 employees, the structure is very classical and hierarchical.
The executive committe consists out of 13 people [5], each responsible for their subdivison of KLM. This kind of structure is not the best for quick decision making, but it is good at managing very large companies. The main division is done by function. Every occupation is in their own subdivison. Within these divisions there can be further subdivisions as well, for example the pilots have subdivisions based on the type of aircraft that they are flying. For such a global company you would expect that there is a more geographical structure. But pretty much every flight is either from or to Amsterdam or a layover of one of those flights. This means that most of the employees are living in the Netherlands. Of course there are always some exceptions, for example KLM has Asia based flight attendants to help reduce the language barrier on all of their flights to and from asian destinations.
##### Systems
The advantage of hierarchical systems is that it is usually very easy to identify the chain of command. Within the airplane everyone answers to the Captain and after that to the second in command. Who again answer to the chief of staff for the type of airplane they are flying. Due to the large amount of pilots (2.600) they rarely see the chief of staff though.  The advantage of this is, that it is easy to get things done, when on a trip the Captain is in charge of all decisions and only when something goes seriously wrong, they have to answer to their manager.

As for the actual performance of the job, airlines are surrounded by rules and regulations so most of what they do is done according to strict rulebooks and guidelines. For the customer this means that they usually have a very consistant experience when flying aboard airplanes.
##### Staffing
A main pro of being a company this big and well known, with a prestigous brand name is that it is not very hard to get the right staff. People know how to find KLM, and this shows. They usually have no open vacancies for aircraft crew. Most open vacancies are usually in the IT field.
##### Skills
As noticed before, a main skill of KLM is customer engagement through Twitter and Facebook, this helps in creating a very friendly brand name. Other skills of note are the international networking and cooperation through the Skyteam network, ensuring that you can reach virtually any destination of the world while flying with KLM or one of their partners.
##### Style
KLM's leadership style is very detached from the 'workfloor'. Captains all have their own style of leadership in their airplane. The main way of influence from higher management is through flight plans and regulations. But as stated earlier, pilots really only see their supervisor once something goes really wrong. So if a captain flies slightly faster than planned, which burns more fuel, to be on their destination earlier that will likely not attract any attention at all.  This means that the area in which leadership has the most influence is in all the supporting acitivities: routes, staff planning, catering, hotels, management, cargo and training.
##### Shared Values
The two Shared Values that KLM hold closest to its heart are: the experience of flying and customer service. In their commercials KLM emphasize the first shared value. In their actions on social media and training of flight crew they pay a great deal of attention to the second shared value

## 2.3 Failed Case : HealthCare.gov ##

In the previous sections we've analyzed two successful companies, through the eyes of the 7S model. Both very different organizations with very different perspectives and very different visions and missions. During our previous research we've analyzed the case of HealthCare.gov. This website is an integral part of the in 2010 changed health care system of the United States. President Obama introduced the 'Obamacare'. The HealthCare.gov website must make sure that all American individuals can find and compare health insurance policies via one website. The system was launched on 01 October 2013. It is still live and in that sense it is not a failed case. However, based on our previous study and our analysis we can conclude that the development and organization of the system has been a failure. The original estimation for the costs of the project was $292 million. Before the launch the costs where already $500 million. According to figures from February 2014 the costs exceeded $1.7 billion by then [cite]. Besides the tremendous costs, the launch of the system was surrounded by technical problems. In this section we analyze the HealtCare.gov further, by taking a careful look at the successful companies. Despite the big differences between business, there are organizational practices that may be shared. We want to know what the contractors behind HealtCare.gov could have learned from the practices of Spotify and KLM.

Comparing different companies is always a big challenge. Especially when they are in entirely different industries, this is difficult. It *seems* easier to talk about differences between companies, as companies have different products, a different vision and so on. This also is not the case when we look further then the superficial parts. We then have to take a deeper look at their processes and somehow make a rational comparison. It is required to take a step, or multiple steps, back and look very carefully at the business processes. Are they really that different from each other? Most of the time different outcomes are produced, but from an abstract perspective, similar tasks and procedures are followed. In this section we'll try to make this abstraction. We try to make a comparison and elaborate on whether we think HealthCare.gov could have succeeded when certain practices were applied.

Trying to compare processes between a company like Spotify with the processes within an initiative like HealthCare.gov seems like a futile task at first. Spotify is one company, producing a popular, but limited range of products. What would be the company with whom we compare? Should it be the client, thus the US government? Should it be CGI Federal Inc, one of the 55 (sub)contractors that were responsible for building HealthCare.gov? As our goal is to compare specific (sub)processes, we've decided not to compare at a company level. This would result in skewed findings, due to the very different worlds they live in. In order to make a more useful analysis, we focus on a couple of very specific aspects that we can compare. The 7S model provides us with some guidelines to start our comparison. With regard to HealthCare.gov, we have to form some hypotheses.

##### Strategy

> • Capabilities. Gathering, sharing and evaluating information about low-cost
> infrastructures and related activities.
> 
> • Social Networks. Building open and active coalitions among experts—from any
> organization or part of the world—who have background and knowledge in key areas,
> and among the business, government, and civil society stakeholders who will have to live
> with and sustain the solutions on the ground.
> 
> • Policy, doctrine and operational procedures. Converting high-level guidance into
> effective field procedures.
> 
> • Legal and regulatory issues. Complying with all laws and regulations, while identifying
> and working to change those that impede cooperation and unity of effort.
> 
> • Resources. Identifying needs for both the short and long terms.
> • Training, exercises, and education. Maintaining readiness, capturing lessons learned, and
> preparing future leaders.

From our earlier analysis, we know that (among others) political factors had a large impact on the problems that surrounded HealthCare.gov [14, 15, 18, 20]. These problems are not isolated to HealtCare.gov, in fact many government systems are a victim of similar problems [14]. 

Political problems are not reserved for government systems only. It does not matter whether a company is small or big, political activities are perpetrated. In each layer of a company, people deal with politics. Although this is on a completely different scale and in different structures. It is interesting to see how companies deal with politics on a small scale. These small scale scenarios can contain valuable information about how it can be done. It may be possible to apply these practices on a larger scale as well.

[Idea Carla: describe knowledge transfer between subcontractors at HealthCare.gov? Compare against 'tribe' philosophy of Spotify?]

[Idea Ger: airlines share routes. By exchanging employees for a number of sprints, it is possible to create the knowledge transfer. In HealthCare.gov this could be done between different subcontractors. The knowledge sharing should be a process on itself?]

One of the many challenges for CGI at HealthCare.gov, was managing the amount of (sub)contractors. In total 55 contractors were involved. One of the biggest problems we see when multiple companies are involved, is that there are differences between companies in  their perception of quality, success and many other factors. The project was already a challenge from a technical perspective (but not impossible according to our analysis), the real problems are in the Project Management area. Especially in the area of knowledge creation and sharing. From CMI, the designated systems integrator, we may expect that it is able to work in large collaborations. For other companies this is not a standard operation. These companies are working, more or less, in isolated bubbles and are not (or less) aware of what happens in the outside world. Because of the enormous scale, the biggest challenge was the Project Management organization. How was knowledge shared between the contractors? More precisely, how did Project Management make sure that the correct amount of specific knowledge was shared between contractors? Let us first explain some examples of how Spotify and KLM do this.

What we've learned from KLM, is that they work together with other airlines in an alliance, the so called 'Skyteam'. The purpose of this setup is to provide the customer with a better experience. The problem that airlines were facing, was that certain knowledge about customers was not shared. Also, services were not shared. This was problematic for the customers, because they've suffered from the problems of coordination between airlines. As explained earlier, these allied airlines solved this by sharing for example flight information. Better, this information is integrated, to help customers with transparently arranging their flights. Also other pieces of customer information are shared. The big benefit for the connected airlines is that they enforce a stronger customer binding.

This 'alliance' and 'sharing' culture, could have been a key factor in making this project work. Off course this situation is not completely comparable with HealthCare.gov. After all, the airlines are seeking a structural solution, where HealtCare.gov was one assignment. The many separate investigations of HealtCare.gov all indicated that none of the involved companies had an overview of what was going on. Although this is a management issue in the end, knowledge creation/sharing is a very important aspect. The complexity of the project can't be used as an excuse for this failure. It would have been a good thing, if the contractors approached this project as one entity. 

An other example, of how these alliances can work, is Heerema Marine Contractors, a Dutch offshore company that performs complicated projects for the oil & gas industry. Examples are transporting, installation and removing offshore facilities. But also installing subsea pipelines and infrastructures in ultra deep water. The market has forced HMC to think about how they work. Years ago, it was common that all these contractors worked separately at very specific tasks. In the present, the big oil companies tender for much larger projects. This concerns highly complex projects, for example EPCI (Engineering, Procurement, Construction, Installation) projects. The stakes and risks of these projects are incredibly high. HMC realized that they could not do projects like this alone. In order to cope with this changed market, HMC joined forces with Technip, a very large French company with a big engineering capacity. Together they've formed a consortium. In this alliance, both companies profit from a stronger position in the market. The awarded Kaombo Project by Total E&P Angola, the largest subsea contract ever, is a direct result from this strategy.

The interesting question is, whether such a strategy would have made a difference for HealthCare.gov. In an earlier stage of the project, McKinsey already identified risks and root cause drivers [18]. One of these drivers was that there were no clear roles, responsibilities and processes for making change. The fact is, that HealtCare.gov was the most complex website for the government, ever. This was known upfront. What is not clear from the reports, is what the strategy concerning working together was. PMBOK was used as an indicative standard [14, page 5]. But 'indicative' provides too much freedom for a project of this scale. If we take back a step from all the separate finding, we can conclude one thing with certainty. Information was not (properly) shared between contractors and stakeholders. Interviewed employees pointed their finger at other contractors (which is a common action, when things go wrong), for not delivering in time. According to a report contractors were writing a lot of code themselves, where existing code should have been reused [15, page 11]. These are only a few of the alarming signals. if the government and CGI knew that this project was that complex, they've should have taken action in their general strategy. It is very strange for a project like this, that it suffered from 'unclear responsibilities'. This kind of issue could have been prevented by working together as an alliance. In this form, it is not a matter of 'us' and 'they'. The purpose of an alliance, is that it becomes 'we'. That is a subtle, but fundamental difference in perception. It is not realistic that all 55 companies worked in 1 alliance for this case. What *could* have worked, was an alliance of the top-5 companies. There was already a huge, complex organization in the form of the government itself. At the other side of the table, there were all kinds of loosely connected managing boards. The complexity of the organizational structure, could have been lowered, by having one board of directors at the contractor side. This should have been one entity, with very clear responsibilities.

##### Structure

> Structure is about how the organization is arranged or configured. Many organizations take a
> functional structure, in which different branches of the organization specialize in particular
> functions, such as manufacturing, sales, and service. Another common form is a divisional
> structure, in which divisions are arrayed according to geographical regions, products, or some
> other factor, and each division contains a full complement of functional elements (e.g., sales,
> service, R&D).

##### Systems

> Systems refers to the rules and regulations, standards, and processes for getting things done and managing the activity of the organization, both formal and informal.

##### Staffing

> Staffing refers to people in the organization and how they are recruited, selected, and trained to
> perform their jobs. Leadership is included in this category, whether leaders are selected from the
> outside or developed from within. Staffing addresses the question of how the organization
> assures it has the right people to do the work.

##### Skills

> Skills are the special, distinctive competencies of the organization, both in the people and the
> organization itself. What is the organization good at, and what special skills and competencies
> are found its people?

##### Style

> Style deals mainly with the leadership approach of the top managers in the organization. How do
> the leaders interface with subordinates and others in the organization, and how do members
> interact with each other? Style also incorporates the climate or culture of the organization, which
> can be expressed in terms of job titles, space allocation, workplace architecture, artifacts, and
> policies.

##### Shared Values

> Shared values are the core beliefs in the organization about what is important and why the
> organization exists. They are incorporated in formal statements, such as a vision statement, and
> in informal expressions and practices around the organization. Shared values are the underlying
> principles or ideas that provide meaning and purpose in an organization.

## 2.4 RUP ##
##### Spotify
[Please append your findings about Spotify here Carla]
##### KLM
Our insights on KLM do not help in dealing with RUP. One of the key components in RUP is requirement management, since these are often changed during the project. KLM does not have this problem, customers buy a ticket and get their transportation to their destination. Every part of the job is done according to strict guidelines and rulebooks, software development is more of a creative job where you do not know how things will go at the start of the project.
## 2.5 Scrum ##

### **What can we learn from this about Scrum?**
##### Spotify
At the beginning Spotify was a Scrum company. As we know scrum is a well established Agile development approach, scrum gave the foundations to the team-oriented culture. After some years, some of the scrum practices were getting on the way, for example 'spring planning meetings', 'burndown charts', 'estimation', so they decided to make it optional, or even mix with other development approaches.
**We can learn that rules can be a good start, but breaking a rule when is needed can be also a good practice.**
##### KLM
The crew aboard an aircraft is not that different from a scrum team. Both teams are self sufficient in the sense that they have everything that they need to get the job done. One of the lessons that could be taken from KLM is that it is perhaps not needed to have a scrum team consist only out of peers. It could perhaps relieve some pressure if there was one 'captain' in a scrum team. Someone who gets the final say over anything the team does, in case there is a dispute about something. This could mean that there is less time spent in meetings, and more doing actual programming. Note that this is different from a product owner. The product owner gets to decide what the team does, and the captain would have the final say in how to do it. A  drawback would be the loss of control for individuals. This may reduce motivation and as such could also lead to a drop in productivity instead of increasing it. 
